Plan 9 Fifth Edition from Geoff Collyer

This is the Plan 9 source code distributed by Geoff Collyer. You can see all of his changes since the last commit in Bell Labs Plan 9 in /sys/doc/release.ps. I made this repository by copying his /sys to the last Bell Labs iso (available at p9f.org/dl) and add little local modification. In particular:
- restore /sys/src/cmd/samterm/main.c to the labs version
- restore /sys/src/cmd/aux/vga to the labs version
- apply these 9legacy patches: dist-inst-pbslba dist-venti-bloom
dist-console dist-mkmulti dist-inst-9fat lib-snprint lib-wiki-links
wikifs-links mimetype-zip 9p-buffers-win (modified for lzip) and maybe
more that I can't remember
- disallow relaying in /mail/lib/smtpd.conf
- use ESMTP by default in /mail/lib/remotemail
- add etherigbepci to k10 config
- replace Geoff's /sys/src/9/bcm with the version of Richard Miller
- change ™ to ® as p9f now owns the Plan 9 trademark
- add p9f and 9p.io servers to /lib/ndb, add cpu-tls service
- path=(/bin .) for rcmain, many more rc commands

This is not 9legacy.  This distribution move faster, but many patches
are not applied, I'm still looking for unapplied fixes.  Also, I made
9k version of some 9legacy patches. Some notable differences:
- there is a riscv64 port of 9k!
- k10 does not have support for graphics.  Looks for l64real,
realmode.c.  We use kernel realmode, not 9front's aux/realemu
- cpu have tls support, service cpu-tls is port 17014. It will warns if it fall back to ssl
- rc has interactive cd spelling correction since Jul 5 2017
- awk, pic has been converted to not rely on APE
- the kernel and userland is 64-bit ready, in contrast to 9legacy.
Look for 9legacy patch uintptr.

There are some surprise I encountered with the kernels, that might
make you don't want this distribution:
- mpacpi, e820 of 9/pc only works on real hardware
- mpacpi is broken for 9k/k10 and not used.  For now, multiprocessor
of k10 is broken, even on real hardware.

----------

This is a re-release of the final version of the 4th Edition of Plan 9
from Bell Labs distributed directly by Bell Labs.

4th Edition was originally released by Lucent Technologies in 2002. It
was released under the terms the Lucent Public License Version 1.02.
4th Edition continues the development of the same ideas, but in many
ways represents the base of what most people think of as "modern" Plan
9 today. The ubiquitous file protocol, 9P, got its first revision, to
9P2000, which caused changes to many parts of the system. It also saw
the debut of venti(8) and fossil(4), which began replacing the
venerable old file server, fs(4). Authentication largely moved to a
separate agent, factotum(4). Updates moved to replica, and the wiki
was created. The original release notes for this edition can be found
at /sys/doc/release4.ms.

While this release is a recognizable ancestor of the latest Plan 9
available, it is still quite old, and this release is mostly for
educational and research purposes. The file protocol and
authentication mechanisms are continued in modern Plan 9, though, so
researchers looking to run this should have an easier time than with
all previous releases. This is a second release of the 4th Edition,
marking the final state of Plan 9 as distributed directly by Bell
Labs.

The only changes between this release and the original 4th Edition
release are the new NOTICE, LICENSE, and README files, and moving the
old ones. In particular, any copyright notices attributing things to
Lucent Technologies or Bell Labs, or notices on restrictions of their
use, should be read as historical; all such rights have been
transferred to the Plan 9 Foundation and released as open source.
Parts (notably, the fonts) maintain trademark and copyright to their
respective parties (such as Bigelow & Holmes Inc.) and were included
in Plan 9 by permission; those copyrights are unaffected by the
transfer to Plan 9 Foundation and remain in effect per the terms found
in this distribution.
